.\" singine-collibra-id(1) — contract ID generation
.TH SINGINE\-COLLIBRA\-ID 1 "2026-03-25" "singine" "Singine Manual"
.
.SH NAME
singine\-collibra\-id \- Contract ID generation and namespace registry
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine collibra id
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mints unique, namespace-scoped contract IDs and persists them as annotated git
tags.  IDs follow the format
.IR <ns>.<kind>.<uuid> ,
e.g.
.IR c.contract.f47ac10b-58cc-4372-a567-0e02b2c3d479 .
Tags are stored as
.IR id-gen/<id> .
.
.SH NAMESPACES
.TP
.B c
Collibra namespace (privileged). Holds production Collibra IDs.
.TP
.B a
.TQ
.B b
Reserved namespaces.
.PP
Priority order for conflict resolution:
.B c
>
.B b
>
.B a
> raw UUID.
.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B singine collibra id gen [\-\-ns c|a|b] [\-\-project PROJECT] [\-\-kind KIND]
Mint a new contract ID. Creates an annotated git tag and appends the ID to
.IR namespaces/<ns>.registry .
Default namespace:
.BR c .
Default kind:
.BR contract .
.TP
.B singine collibra id gen\-topic [\-\-project PROJECT]
Mint a topic ID for a project.
.TP
.B singine collibra id import \-\-uuid UUID \-\-kind KIND [\-\-project PROJECT]
Register an existing Collibra UUID into the
.B c
namespace registry.
.TP
.B singine collibra id tags
List all id-gen git tags.
.TP
.B singine collibra id push\-tags
Push id-gen git tags to
.IR origin .
.TP
.B singine collibra id detect\-conflicts
Scan namespace registry files for git merge conflicts.
.TP
.B singine collibra id resolve\-conflicts [\-\-strategy STRATEGY]
Auto-resolve namespace registry merge conflicts.
.I STRATEGY
is one of:
.RS
.TP
.B COLLIBRA_WINS
(default) Prefer
.B c.*
namespaced IDs.
.TP
.B OURS
Keep the local version.
.TP
.B THEIRS
Keep the incoming version.
.TP
.B ASK
Prompt for each conflict.
.TP
.B MANUAL
Exit without resolving; let the user edit manually.
.RE
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I id-gen/id_gen.sh
Core ID minting and conflict resolution script.
.TP
.I id-gen/namespaces.sh
Namespace registry management.
.TP
.I id-gen/namespaces/c.registry
.TQ
.I id-gen/namespaces/a.registry
.TQ
.I id-gen/namespaces/b.registry
Plain-text registries. Never edit manually.
.TP
.I uniWork/id_gen.log
Unified timestamped log of all ID operations.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine\-collibra (1),
.BR singine\-collibra\-contract (1),
.BR git\-tag (1)
