.\" singine-collibra-contract(1) — data contract lifecycle
.TH SINGINE\-COLLIBRA\-CONTRACT 1 "2026-03-25" "singine" "Singine Manual"
.
.SH NAME
singine\-collibra\-contract \- Data contract scaffolding, lifecycle, and ORM/SBVR pipeline
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine collibra contract
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manages data contracts stored as JSON files in
.IR id-gen/contracts/store/ .
Each contract tracks a 7-step ORM/SBVR semantic transformation pipeline
from
.B INIT
to
.BR CONTRACT .
.
.SH CONTRACT KINDS
.BR DataContract ,
.BR UseCaseContract ,
.BR ServiceContract ,
.B GovernanceContract
.
.SH CONTRACT STATUSES
.TP
.B DRAFT
Initial state. Pipeline steps 0–3.
.TP
.B PENDING_APPROVAL
Steps 4–6. Awaiting governance review.
.TP
.B APPROVED
Step 7. Contract finalised.
.TP
.B REJECTED
.TQ
.B ACTIVE
.TQ
.B DEPRECATED
Additional lifecycle states.
.
.SH PIPELINE STEPS
.TS
l l l l.
Step	Label	Status	Progress
0	INIT	DRAFT	0%
1	EXTRACT	DRAFT	14%
2	CLASSIFY	DRAFT	29%
3	RELATE	DRAFT	43%
4	CONSTRAIN	PENDING_APPROVAL	57%
5	VERBALIZE	PENDING_APPROVAL	71%
6	ALIGN	PENDING_APPROVAL	86%
7	CONTRACT	APPROVED	100%
.TE
.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B singine collibra contract new [\-\-project PROJECT] [\-\-kind KIND]
Scaffold a new data contract JSON file and initialise pipeline at step 0 (INIT).
.TP
.B singine collibra contract list
List all contracts in
.IR id-gen/contracts/store/ .
.TP
.B singine collibra contract status CONTRACT_ID STATUS
Update a contract's status.
.TP
.B singine collibra contract pipeline [\-\-id CONTRACT_ID]
Run the full 7-step ORM/SBVR pipeline sequentially for a contract.
.TP
.B singine collibra contract step N [\-\-id CONTRACT_ID]
Run a single pipeline step (1–7).
.TP
.B singine collibra contract advance [\-\-id CONTRACT_ID]
Advance the contract to the next pipeline step.
.TP
.B singine collibra contract progress [\-\-id CONTRACT_ID] [\-\-all] [\-\-json]
Show pipeline progress.
.B \-\-all
shows all contracts.
.B \-\-json
emits machine-readable output.
.
.SH PIPELINE DETAILS
.TP
.B Step 1: EXTRACT
Enumerate Collibra asset types from the governance reference data.
.TP
.B Step 2: CLASSIFY
Map asset types to SBVR Concept Types.
.TP
.B Step 3: RELATE
Identify ORM binary fact types between concepts.
.TP
.B Step 4: CONSTRAIN
Apply uniqueness and mandatory constraints.
.TP
.B Step 5: VERBALIZE
Express business rules in SBVR natural-language form.
.TP
.B Step 6: ALIGN
Cross-reference vocabulary against SKOS, DCAT, ODRL, PROV-O, and OWL.
.TP
.B Step 7: CONTRACT
Finalise the contract. IDs are tracked in
.B c.*
namespace.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I id-gen/collibra/metamodel_7step.sh
7-step pipeline implementation.
.TP
.I id-gen/contracts/generate_contract.sh
Contract scaffolding.
.TP
.I id-gen/contracts/workflow_tracker.sh
Step advancement and progress tracking.
.TP
.I id-gen/contracts/contract_schema.json
JSON Schema (draft-07) that all contracts must satisfy.
.TP
.I id-gen/contracts/store/
Generated contract JSON files.
.TP
.I id-gen/governance/reference_data.json
Enums: kinds, statuses, steps, SBVR/SKOS/DCAT/ODRL/PROV/OWL mappings.
.TP
.I id-gen/governance/vocab_alignment.json
Cross-ontology vocabulary mappings.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine\-collibra (1),
.BR singine\-collibra\-id (1)
