.\" singine-collibra(1) — singine collibra command family
.TH SINGINE\-COLLIBRA 1 "2026-03-25" "singine" "Singine Manual"
.
.SH NAME
singine\-collibra \- Collibra governance CLI (edge, id, contract, server)
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine collibra
.I component
.I command
.RI [ subcommand ]
.RI [ options ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B singine collibra
is the command family for all Collibra-specific operations in the singine CLI.
It exposes the full lifecycle of the Collibra edge stack, contract ID generation,
data contract management, ORM/SBVR semantic pipeline, and the id-gen HTTP server.
.PP
All heavy implementation lives in the
.B collibra
repository
.RI ( ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/collibra ).
The singine CLI acts as the execution gate and wraps results in structured
envelopes.
.
.SH COMPONENTS
.TP
.B edge
Collibra edge stack lifecycle — build, deploy, and manage the CDN, edge-site,
and DGC containers.
See
.BR singine\-collibra\-edge (1).
.TP
.B id
Contract ID generation and namespace registry.
IDs are minted as annotated git tags in the format
.IR id-gen/<ns>.<kind>.<uuid> .
See
.BR singine\-collibra\-id (1).
.TP
.B contract
Data contract scaffolding, status management, and the 7-step ORM/SBVR pipeline.
See
.BR singine\-collibra\-contract (1).
.TP
.B server
id-gen HTTP API server in net or DMZ mode.
See
.BR singine\-collibra\-server (1).
.TP
.B env
Validate Collibra environment configuration
.RB ( COLLIBRA_BASE_URL ,
credentials).
.TP
.B fetch
Fetch live Collibra resources.
Subcommands:
.BR community ,
.BR domain ,
.BR asset-type ,
.BR view ,
.BR workflow .
.TP
.B search
Search Collibra assets by name.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B COLLIBRA_DIR
Root of the collibra repository. Default:
.IR ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/collibra .
Used by singine to locate the
.B singine_collibra
Python package under
.IR $COLLIBRA_DIR/singine-collibra/python/
and the id-gen scripts.
.TP
.B COLLIBRA_EDGE_DIR
Root of the edge stack. Default:
.IR $COLLIBRA_DIR/edge .
.TP
.B COLLIBRA_BASE_URL
Base URL for live Collibra REST API calls
.RB ( env ,
.BR fetch ,
.BR search ).
.TP
.B COLLIBRA_USERNAME
.TQ
.B COLLIBRA_PASSWORD
Credentials for live Collibra API authentication.
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/collibra/singine-collibra/python/singine_collibra/
Core Python implementation package.
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/collibra/id-gen/
Bash-based contract ID and lifecycle scripts.
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/collibra/edge/
Docker edge stack.
.TP
.I ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/collibra/uniWork/CollibraBaseUrl
Plain-text file containing the Collibra API base URL.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine\-collibra\-edge (1),
.BR singine\-collibra\-id (1),
.BR singine\-collibra\-contract (1),
.BR singine\-collibra\-server (1),
.BR singine (1)
.
.SH AUTHORS
singine and the collibra tooling are maintained by sindoc.
