.\" singine-collibra-edge(1) — edge stack lifecycle commands
.TH SINGINE\-COLLIBRA\-EDGE 1 "2026-03-25" "singine" "Singine Manual"
.
.SH NAME
singine\-collibra\-edge \- Collibra edge stack lifecycle (build, deploy, manage)
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B singine collibra edge
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Manages the full lifecycle of the Collibra edge stack located in
.IR ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/collibra/edge/ .
The stack is three services behind an nginx CDN:
.IP
.I CDN (nginx :443)
→
.I edge-site (:8080, EdgeSiteServerMain.java)
.br
.I CDN (nginx :443)
→
.I collibra-edge (:7080, DGC JAR or Python mock)
.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Build and push
.TP
.B singine collibra edge build [\-\-target TARGET] [\-\-tag TAG] [\-\-no\-cache] [\-\-json]
Build one or all container images.
.I TARGET
is one of
.BR base ,
.BR collibra-edge ,
.BR cdn ,
.B all
(default:
.BR all ).
.TP
.B singine collibra edge push \-\-registry REGISTRY [\-\-target TARGET] [\-\-tag TAG] [\-\-json]
Tag and push images to a registry.
.SS Setup
.TP
.B singine collibra edge setup [\-\-dev] [\-\-no\-start] [\-\-tag TAG] [\-\-json]
Full automated setup: generate TLS certs, write
.IR .env ,
build images, and start the stack.
.B \-\-dev
forces mock DGC (auto-selected when
.I collibra-edge.jar
is absent).
.TP
.B singine collibra edge install [\-\-tag TAG] [\-\-json]
Build all images, prepare agent venv, and register a governance decision.
Idempotent.
.TP
.B singine collibra edge deploy [\-\-tag TAG] [\-\-json]
.BR install " + " up
— full bring-up from scratch.
.SS Stack lifecycle
.TP
.B singine collibra edge up [\-\-detach] [\-\-json]
Start the stack via
.BR "docker compose" .
.TP
.B singine collibra edge down [\-\-json]
Stop and remove containers.
.TP
.B singine collibra edge cloud [\-\-json]
Start the stack in cloud mode pointing to
.IR https://lutino.collibra.com .
.TP
.B singine collibra edge logs [\-\-service SERVICE] [\-\-follow]
Stream container logs.
.I SERVICE
is one of
.BR edge-site ,
.BR collibra-edge ,
.BR cdn .
.TP
.B singine collibra edge status [\-\-json]
Show image, container, and governance decision status.
.TP
.B singine collibra edge test [\-\-url URL] [\-\-k8s] [\-\-json]
Run the full edge API test suite against the running stack.
.TP
.B singine collibra edge javadoc [\-\-json]
Build Javadoc for the Java interface layer
.RI ( edge/java/ ).
.SS Site installer (Kubernetes)
.TP
.B singine collibra edge site init NAME [\-\-edge\-dir DIR] [\-\-installer\-dir DIR] [\-\-namespace NS] [\-\-keep\-dev\-stack] [\-\-dry\-run] [\-\-json]
Deploy the official Collibra Edge site from
.I installer/
using Helm and verify it.
.SS Kubernetes
.TP
.B singine collibra edge k8s prereqs [\-\-json]
Verify
.BR helm ,
.BR kubectl ,
.BR jq ,
.B yq
are installed and the cluster is reachable.
.TP
.B singine collibra edge k8s install [\-\-dry\-run] [\-\-json]
Deploy via Helm into the
.B collibra-edge
namespace.
.TP
.B singine collibra edge k8s uninstall [\-\-json]
Helm uninstall and delete the namespace.
.TP
.B singine collibra edge k8s status [\-\-namespace NS] [\-\-json]
Show Helm release and pod health.
.TP
.B singine collibra edge k8s logs COMPONENT [\-\-namespace NS] [\-\-follow] [\-\-tail N]
Stream pod logs.
.I COMPONENT
is one of
.BR edge-proxy ,
.BR edge-controller ,
.BR edge-cd ,
.BR edge-session-manager ,
.BR otel-agent .
.TP
.B singine collibra edge k8s test [\-\-namespace NS] [\-\-json]
Run the Kubernetes edge test suite.
.SS Agent
.TP
.B singine collibra edge agent validate [\-\-json]
Smoke-test all agent tools without making an API call.
.TP
.B singine collibra edge agent install [\-\-json]
Prepare agent venv and register a governance decision.
.TP
.B singine collibra edge agent status [\-\-json]
Show agent venv, packages, and decision status.
.TP
.B singine collibra edge agent run \-\-task DESCRIPTION [\-\-output\-dir DIR] [\-\-json]
Run the Claude API agent with a natural-language task.
Writes generated artifacts (K8s manifests, OpenShift resources, RHEL configs) to
.IR DIR .
.
.SH DEPLOY MODES
.TP
.B dev
.I docker-compose.dev.yml
— Python mock DGC. No
.I collibra-edge.jar
required.
.TP
.B cloud
.I docker-compose.cloud.yml
—
.I https://lutino.collibra.com
as DGC backend.
.TP
.B production
.I docker-compose.yml
— real
.I collibra-edge.jar
on-prem.
.TP
.B installer-backed
Helm chart from
.I installer/
on Docker Desktop Kubernetes.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B COLLIBRA_EDGE_DIR
Edge stack root. Default:
.IR ~/ws/git/github/sindoc/collibra/edge .
.TP
.B DOCKER_DEFAULT_PLATFORM
Set to
.B linux/amd64
automatically on arm64 hosts by
.IR setup.sh .
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
Required for
.BR "edge agent run" .
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I edge/docker-compose.yml
.TQ
.I edge/docker-compose.dev.yml
.TQ
.I edge/docker-compose.cloud.yml
Stack compose files.
.TP
.I edge/.env
Environment configuration (gitignored).
.TP
.I edge/certs/
TLS certificates (gitignored).
.TP
.I edge/image/collibra-edge-mock/mock_dgc.py
Python mock DGC server.
.TP
.I edge/agent/edge_agent.py
Claude API agentic loop.
.TP
.I edge/installer/
K8s Helm bundle (gitignored).
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR singine\-collibra (1),
.BR docker\-compose (1),
.BR helm (1)
